# nextwork-website-project
Project run by NextWork, where I host a website on an AWS bucket


## Creating an S3 Bucket. 
Creating an S3 Bucket took me about 30 seconds. I found it relatively straight forward. 
The region I picked for my S3 bucket was Asia Pacific (Sydney) because it is the closest region to me.
I enabled ACL (Access Control Lists), public access, and bucket versioning. 

> ### What is an ACL?
An ACL is a set of rules that decides who can get access to a resource. Enabling this in the S3 setup lets me control who can access and do things with the objects I upload into my bucket. With ACLs, different AWS accounts can own and control different files in my bucket.

S3 Bucket names are globally unique! This means that nobody, using AWS, is able to use the same Bucket name as the one I used to name my bucket.

## Uploading website content to my bucket
Nextwork provided some an index.html file and an assets folder to upload to the bucket.

## Configure a static website on Amazon S3
After uploading the website content, I configured the bucket to enable Static Website Hosting. Website hosting is what makes my website public on the internet. It basically tells the bucket that the purpose of the bucket is to host a website and the static website hosting sets it so that it is configured for static pages.
To enable website hosting with my S3 bucket, I went to the properties tab in my bucket overview, and scrolled down to where the Static Website Hosting section was. From there, I edited this property and enabled Static Website Hosting.
Once static website is enabled, S3 produces a bucket endpoint URL, which is the URL that users can use to view the static website.

## ACL Error
Upon opening the endpoint URL, generated by S3, there was a 403 Forbidden error, indicating that I did not have the necessary permissions to access the website. This is because the objects are private by default. This default setting helps keep your account's data secure.
To resolve this connection error, I selected the objects in my S3 bucket, and clicked the button "Make public using ACL" under the Actions dropdown.

## What is Amazon S3 and why is it useful?
Amazon S3 is a cloud service where you are able to store and retrieve data from anywhere on the web!

In this NextWork project, I created an S3 bucket, in which I uploaded content, in the form of html files and assets, and served it while modifying the ACL permissions to allow anyone to view the content.
One thing I didn't expect in this project was the simplicity and fluidity of the tutorial. It was very beginner friendly and was very easy to navigate through.
